# List

Well tested 'is number' checks, that can include number-like strings, and non-finite values as desired.

After seeing too many confusing 'is number' checks on stackoverflow, and in other libraries, it seemed worthwhile to test some.

## Table of Contents

<!-- !toc (minlevel=2 omit="Features;Table of Contents") -->

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
* [API](#api)
  * [isNumber](#isnumber)
  * [isNumeric](#isnumeric)
  * [isFiniteNumber](#isfinitenumber)
  * [isFiniteNumeric](#isfinitenumeric)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Issues](#issues)
* [Credits](#credits)
* [License](#license)

<!-- toc! -->

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @toolbuilder/isnumber
```

Access the latest UMD package from [unpkg](https://unpkg.com) like this:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@toolbuilder%2fisnumber/umd/isnumber.min.js"></script>
```

Or for the full version:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@toolbuilder%2fisnumber/umd/isnumber.js"></script>
```

Both packages create a global variable representing the list as `IsNumber`.

## Getting Started

To access as the Node version, use this import:

```javascript
const { isNumeric, isFiniteNumeric, isNumber, isFiniteNumber } = require('@toolbuilder/isnumber')

console.log(isNumeric('1.234')) // true
console.log(isFiniteNumeric(42.54)) // true
console.log(isNumber('1.234')) // false
console.log(isFiniteNumber(-Infinity)) // false
```

To access the ES module directly with no [esm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/esm) dependency, use this import:

```javascript
import { isNumeric } from '@toolbuilder/isnumeric/src/isnumeric.js'
```

## API

API documentation follows.

<!-- include (api.md) -->
<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### isNumber

Test if n is a number.

Includes Infinities and NaN, does not include strings that look like numbers

#### Parameters

- `n` **any** value to test

#### Examples

```javascript
isNumber(1.23) // true
isNumber(Infinity) // true
isNumber(NaN) // true
isNumber('1.23') // false
```

Returns **[boolean][1]** true if is number, false otherwise

### isNumeric

Test if n is a number, or string that parses to a number. Includes infinities and NaN.

Non-finite strings are: 'Infinity', '-Infinity', and 'NaN'.

#### Parameters

- `n` **any** value to test

#### Examples

```javascript
isNumeric(1.23) // true
isNumeric('Infinity') // true
isNumeric(NaN) // true
isNumeric('1.23') // true
isNumeric('hi') // false
```

Returns **[boolean][1]** true if is numeric, false otherwise

### isFiniteNumber

Test if n is a finite number.

Does not include infinities, NaN, or strings that look like numbers.

#### Parameters

- `n` **any** value to test

#### Examples

```javascript
isFiniteNumber(1.23) // true
isFiniteNumber(Infinity) // false
isFiniteNumber(NaN) // false
isFiniteNumber('1.23') // false
```

Returns **[boolean][1]** true if is a finite number, false otherwise

### isFiniteNumeric

Test if n is a finite number, or string that parses to a finite number.

Does not include infinities, NaN

#### Parameters

- `n` **any** value to test

#### Examples

```javascript
isFiniteNumeric(1.23) // true
isFiniteNumeric('Infinity') // false
isFiniteNumeric(NaN) // false
isFiniteNumeric('1.23') // true
isFiniteNumeric('hi') // false
```

Returns **[boolean][1]** true if is a finite number, false otherwise

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
<!-- /include -->

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please create a pull request. Linting with [standard](https://standardjs.com/), version 13.1.0.

I use [pnpm](https://pnpm.js.org/) as the package manager, which is why you see `pnpm-lock.yaml` instead of npm lock files.

## Issues

This project uses Github issues.

## Credits

The `isFiniteNumeric` implementation, and the most of the tests were copied from this
[site](http://run.plnkr.co/plunks/93FPpacuIcXqqKMecLdk/), which was mentioned on Stack Overflow. Thanks!

## License

<!-- include (LICENSE) -->
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright 2019 Kevin Hudson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
<!-- /include -->
